<html>
<head>
<title>Resume</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Balupraveen Chandra Vattem</h1>
<pre>
1020 N Union Ave #1,	 
Madison, SD 57042, 	
Phone: (605)-291-6333,
Email: bcvattem@pluto.dsu.edu.

OBJECTIVE
Seeking a challenging Entry Level Developer opportunity to work and learn as an Oracle Certified Java 2SE Programmer at a progressing organization with excellent values.

SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATION
?	Complete knowledge of SDLC in systems development.
?	Experience in executing SQL queries.
?	Possess profound Knowledge in Object Oriented Development and Design. 
?	Involved in creating the Logical Data Modeling, creating use case diagrams, ER diagrams, Development, Testing and Implementation.
?	Good knowledge in using SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers. 
?	Experience in analysis, design and development of MVC (MVC1, MVC2) pattern, Struts applications in J2EE Environment.
?	Experience in Studying & Understanding Database Diagrams and Work Flow, ER Diagrams.
?	 Excellent ability to interact with Business and Developers to understand technical design.
?	Ability to collaborate with testers, project managers and other team members in testing complex projects.
?	Experience working with team members to ensure testing deliverables are in compliance with the quality standards and deadlines.
?	Expertise in soliciting client requirements through interviews, JAD sessions, workshops, and existing systems documentation and procedures.
?	Creative and innovative in using IT for business processes, outstanding problem solving and analytical skills, excellent self-starter and integrative thinker.
?	Consistently met project deadlines while producing high quality software releases. Excellent Team Member with good Communication and Interpersonal skills.
?	Expertise in Software development Life cycle SDLC and Software test life cycle.
?	Experience in preparing the training manual, check lists for scripting best practices, report generation and presentations.
?	Experience in working in PL/SQL and Oracle environment.

TECHNICAL SKILLS
Languages	C, C++, Java 6 SE, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, Spring 3, VB, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL.
RDBMS		Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MS Access.
GUI	Visual Basic 6.0, Applets, Swings
Server Software	Apache Tomcat, Web Logic.
Tools & Editors		Eclipse, Visual Studio, Rational Rose, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project 2000, Borland,land, Oracle10G, SQL Server 2005, Knime, ExtendSim, Declare.
Modeling	UML
Protocols	TCP/IP, UDP, FTP, HTTP
Platforms	MS Windows, DOS, UNIX, Linux
 
BALUPRAVEEN CHANDRA VATTEM	Page 2 of 2
EDUCATION
Dakota State University – Madison, SD	January-2011-Current
Master of Science in Information Systems	GPA: 3.92
JNTU – Hyderabad, India	August-2005-May-2009
Bachelor of technology in Electronics and Communications Engineering	GPA: 3.67

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
ZenQA Technologies	September 2009 – November 2010
Role: Software Developer-Student 
Responsibilities include:
•	Performed database management and maintenance using Hibernate, JDBC.
•	Responsible for designing and developing UI for the application using JSP.
•	Developed Java beans and Action classes for the application.
•	Generated test plans and technical release documentation for the internal technical writers. 
•	Created unit tests and system tests to automate the developer testing process as a part of the product development lifecycle.
•	Provided end user support for the lunch of the application and provided quick assist for installations.
Environment:
Java, JDBC, Servlet, JSP, Oracle Java Script, XML, MS Office, iReport, Eclipse Helios.

Dakota State University, SD	August 2011 to December 2012
Role: Graduate Assistant.
Graduate Assistantship involves in working with professors at the Dakota State University and carryout research under or helps professors in their research work.
Responsibilities include:
•	Developed a sample Health Center Management System in Java.
•	Created constraint based models using Declare tool, simulation models using ExtendSim and provided conceptual solutions for optimizing the workflow. 
•	Performed Data mining tasks like Data modeling, Data Sampling, Retrieval and Analysis using KNIME.
•	Research and Analysis on Clinical Process workflow in the health care industry.
•	Updated version of software’s on the University servers.
•	Created Simulation models for Hospitals to decrease patient waiting time.
Environment: 
Java, Java Script, Spring 3, JDBC, KNIME, Extend Sim, Oracle 10g, MS Access, MS Office, Eclipse Juno.
</pre>
<body>
</html>
